# Introducing Webpack

The ES6 module syntax is a useful way to import external dependencies into a module, guaranteeing that all our scripts
are loaded in the correct order. However it is not natively supported in browsers. To get around this, there are a 
number of build tools that allow us to **bundle** our JavaScript modules so that they can be consumed within a browser 
environment:

- [Browserify](http://browserify.org/)
- [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/)
- [Rollup](https://rollupjs.org/)

We're going to look at Webpack.

## Setup

Take a look in `package.json` to familiarise yourself with this project's dependencies. Now install them:

```bash
$ npm install
```

Let's create a super-simple JavaScript file:

```js
// src/index.js
document.querySelector('.container').innerHTML = '<h1>Hello Webpack!</h1>'
```

And a HTML file:

```html
// index.html

<!doctype html>
<html>
<head>
  <title>Hello Webpack</title>
</head>
<body>
<div class="container"></div>
<script src="dist/bundle.js"></script>
</body>
</html>

```

Next we're going to build the simplest possible Webpack config. Create a file called `webpack.config.js` under the
`exercise3` folder:

```js
// webpack.config.js

const path = require('path');

module.exports = {
  entry: ['./src/index.js'],
  output: {
    filename: 'bundle.js',
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist'),
  },
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.js$/,
        use: 'babel-loader',
        exclude: /node_modules/
      },
    ],
  },
  devtool: 'source-map',
};

```

**Note:** we are importing Node's built-in `path` module and exporting the config object using CommonJS module syntax.

Let's have a look at what is happening in this file:

- `entry`: this contains the entry points for the app. Each page may only contain one entry point
- `output.filename`: the resulting file that Webpack will produce
- `output.path`: absolute path to the output file
- `module.rules`: these rules allow us to use special loaders to process our source files before they get bundled. In
this example, we are using the `babel-loader` to transpile our hipster ES6 source code back into ES5 so it can be used
across a wider set of browsers
- `devtool`: Generates sourcemaps to make in-browser debugging easier

Finally we'll add some scripts to our `package.json`:

```json
"scripts": {
  "build": "webpack",
  "start": "http-server ."
}
```

Now run:

```bash
$ npm run build
```

This will kick off Webpack and build a browser bundle under `dist/bundle.js`. Take a look inside and enjoy the tasty
Webpack bootstrapping.

Now we can start up a dev server:

```bash
$ npm start
```

Browse to [`http://localhost:8080`](http://localhost:8080). You should see a page that screams "Hello Webpack!"

## Watching for changes

By now, you're probably sick of restarting the server every time you make a change to your JS. We can tell Webpack to 
watch for changes to your JS and rebundle your code. When you refresh the browser, your changes will be reflected 
without needing a server restart.

Make the following change in your `package.json`:

```json
"scripts": {
  "build": "webpack",
  "start": "webpack --progress --watch & http-server ."
}
```

## Importing other modules

Create a new script in `src` called `config.js`

```js
// src/config.js

export const config = {
    projectName: 'Webpack'
};
```
Update `src/index.js` to consume the new module:

```js
import {config} from './config';

document.querySelector('.container').innerHTML = `<h1>Hello ${config.projectName}!</h1>`;
```

## Debugging in the browser

Have a look in the Sources / Debugger tab of your favourite browser's devtools. Notice that you can see the source for 
`src/index.js`, even though it is not included in `index.html`. This is the sourcemap generated by passing the `devtool`
property in the Webpack config. You can attach a breakpoint to the sourcemap, refresh the page and step through the
code as if it were the `dist` version.
